.de URL
\\$2 \(laURL: \\$1 \(ra\\$3
..
.if \n[.g] .mso www.tmac

.TH cbgt2tga 1 2015-07-23 "xoreos-tools"
.SH NAME
cbgt2tga - CBGT image to TGA converter
.SH SYNOPSIS
cbgt2tga [<options>] <cbgt> <pal> <2da> <tga>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B cbgt2tga
converts CBGT image files into common TGA images. CBGT, Compressed
BackGround Tiles, are used as area background images in BioWare's
Nintendo DS game
.IR "Sonic Chronicles: The Dark Brotherhood" .
.PP
Internally, a CBGT consists of a collection of 64x64 pixel cells,
divided into tiles of 8x8 pixels. Each cell is compressed using
Nintendo's 0x10 LZSS algorithm. Moreover, PAL files with the same
name as the CBGT file contain the palette data, and 2DA files with
the same name yet again contain the mapping of palette indices onto
cells.
.PP
The width and height of the final image is not stored within the
CBGT file, but the palette mapping 2DA does contain the number
cells in X and Y direction, since it stores the palette indices
in a two-dimensional array of those dimensions. Therefore, multi-
plying the number of columns and rows in said 2DA by 64 yields
the width and height, respectively, of the final image.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 4
.B -h
.PD 0
.TP 4
.B --help
.PD
Show a help text and exit.
.TP 4
.B --version
Show version information and exit.
.TP 4
<cbgt>
The name of the CBGT file to read. The CBGT contains the pixel
graphics part of the image.
.TP 4
<pal>
The name of the PAL file to use. The PAL file contains the palette
part of the image.
.TP 4
<2da>
The name of the 2DA file to use. The 2DA file contains information
on which palette to use for each part of the CBGT, and on how many
parts are in the CBGT in the first place.
.TP 4
<tga>
The resulting TGA file will be written there.
.SH EXAMPLE
.ad l
.B Convert a CBGT+PAL+2DA into a TGA:
.nf
.ad l
cbgt2tga a.cbgt a.pal a.2da result.tga
.fi
.ad b
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cdpth2tga (1),
.BR ncgr2tga (1)
.PP
More information about the xoreos project can be found on
.URL "https://xoreos.org/" "its website" .
.SH AUTHORS
This program is part of the xoreos-tools package, which in turn is
part of the xoreos project, and was written by the xoreos team.
Please see the AUTHORS file for details.
