.Dd October 20, 2019
.Dt ERF 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm erf
.Nd BioWare ERF (.erf, .mod, .nwm, .sav) archive packer
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm erf
.Op Ar options
.Ar output_archive
.Op Ar
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
packs files together into a BioWare ERF archive, found in many
BioWare Games as files with the extension .erf, .mod, .nwm or .sav.
Moreover, in some games, a .rim file might be an ERF instead of a RIM.
.Pp
There's several different versions of ERFs.
This tool supports version V1.0, as used by
.Em Neverwinter Nights ,
.Em Knights of the Old Republic ,
.Em Knights of the Old Republic II ,
.Em Jade Empire
and
.Em The Witcher
and version V2.0 as used by
.Em Dragon Age: Origins
and version V2.2 as used by
.Em Dragon Age: Origins
and
.Em Dragon Age 2
.Pp
Unsupported Features:
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
Generation of archives with stripped filenames.
.It
Generation of Blowfish-encrypted archives.
.It
Generation of XOR-encrypted archives.
.It
Setting of a description for archives.
.It
Usage of paths in archives.
.El
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width xxxx -compact
.It Fl h
.It Fl Fl help
Show a help text and exit.
.It Fl Fl version
Show version information and exit.
.It Fl Fl erf
Set archive ID to ERF.
.It Fl Fl mod
Set archive ID to MOD.
.It Fl Fl hak
Set archive ID to HAK.
.It Fl Fl sav
Set archive ID to SAV.
.It Fl Fl v10
Generate a V1.0 ERF file
.It Fl Fl v20
Generate a V2.0 ERF file
.It Fl Fl v22
Generate a V2.2 ERF file
.It Fl Fl bzlib
Compress using BioWare zlib method
.It Fl Fl zlib
Compress using headerless zlib method
.It Fl Fl jade
Unalias file types according to
.Em Jade Empire
rules.
.Pp
.Em Jade Empire
reuses a few file extension IDs differently than other BioWare games.
To correctly write Jade Empire ERF archives, use this flag.
.It Ar output_archive
The ERF archive to be written.
.It Ar files
One or more files to pack together.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Pack some files together into an ERF archive:
.Pp
.Dl $ erf archive.erf file1.dat file2.dat file3.dat
.Pp
Pack some files together into a SAV archive:
.Pp
.Dl $ erf --sav archive.sav file1.dat file2.dat file3.dat
.Pp
Pack some files together into a V2.0 archive:
.Pp
.Dl $ erf --v20 archive.sav file1.dat file2.dat file3.dat
.Pp
Pack some files together into a V2.2 archive with headerless zlib compression:
.Pp
.Dl $ erf --v22 --zlib archive.sav file1.dat file2.dat file3.dat
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr unerf 1 ,
.Xr unherf 1
.Pp
More information about the xoreos project can be found on
.Lk https://xoreos.org/ "its website"
.Ns .
.Sh AUTHORS
This program is part of the xoreos-tools package, which in turn is
part of the xoreos project, and was written by the xoreos team.
Please see the
.Pa AUTHORS
file for details.
