.de URL
\\$2 \(laURL: \\$1 \(ra\\$3
..
.if \n[.g] .mso www.tmac

.TH fixpremiumgff 1 2015-11-14 "xoreos-tools"
.SH NAME
fixpremiumgff - Repair BioWare GFF files from encrypted NWN premium module HAKs
.SH SYNOPSIS
fixpremiumgff [<options>] <input file> <output file>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
In addition to being encrypted, the main HAK (ERF archive) of
.I "Neverwinter Nights"
premium modules also contains GFF files that have been deliberately
broken.
.B fixpremiumgff
repairs those GFF files, turning them back into standard BioWare GFF
files that can be read and manipulated by the usual GFF tools.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 4
.B -h
.PD 0
.TP 4
.B --help
.PD
Show a help text and exit.
.TP 4
.B --version
Show version information and exit.
.TP 4
.BR --id " <id>"
Write this string into the ID fields of the repaired GFF. By default,
the ID is auto-detected from the file name of the broken file. For
example, a broken "module.ifo" will by default turned into a standard
GFF with an ID of "IFO", while an "aribeth.dlg" will get the "DLG"
id.
.TP 4
<input file>
The GFF file to repair.
.TP 4
<output file>
The repaired GFF file be be written there. This can be the same as
the input file, to repair a broken GFF file in-place.
.SH EXAMPLES
.ad l
.B Repair the file module.ifo:
.nf
.ad l
fixpremiumgff module.ifo module_fixed.ifo
.PP
.fi
.ad l
.B Repair the file module.ifo, but overwrite the ID:
.nf
.ad l
fixpremiumgff --id DLG module.ifo module_fixed.ifo
.PP
.fi
.ad l
.B Repair the file module.ifo in-place:
.nf
.ad l
fixpremiumgff module.ifo module.ifo
.PP
.fi
.ad b
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gff2xml (1),
.BR unerf (1)
.PP
More information about the xoreos project can be found on
.URL "https://xoreos.org/" "its website" .
.SH AUTHORS
This program is part of the xoreos-tools package, which in turn is
part of the xoreos project, and was written by the xoreos team.
Please see the AUTHORS file for details.
