.Dd July 23, 2015
.Dt NBFS2TGA 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm nbfs2tga
.Nd Nintendo raw NBFS image to TGA converter
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm nbfs2tga
.Op Ar options
.Ar nbfs nbfp tga
.Op Ar width Op Ar height
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
converts Nintendo's raw NBFS images into common TGA images.
Both an NBFS file, containing the pixel data, and an NBFP file with
the palette data are needed.
If no height is specified, it is
calculated using the width value and the size of the NBFS file.
If no width is specified either, this tool tries to guess the
dimensions.
It might guess the wrong dimensions.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width xxxx -compact
.It Fl h
.It Fl Fl help
Show a help text and exit.
.It Fl Fl version
Show version information and exit.
.El
.Bl -tag -width xx -compact
.It Ar nbfs
The name of the NBFS file to read.
The NBFS contains the pixel graphics part of the image.
.It Ar nbfp
The name of the NBFP file to use.
The NBFP file contains the palette part of the image.
.It Ar tga
The resulting TGA file will be written there.
.It Ar width
The width of the NBFS image.
.It Ar height
The height of the NBFS image.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Convert an NBFS+NBFP into a TGA and specify dimensions:
.Pp
.Dl $ nbfs2tga a.nbfs a.nbfp a.tga 64 64
.Pp
Convert an NBFS+NBFP into a TGA and only specify width:
.Pp
.Dl $ nbfs2tga a.nbfs a.nbfp a.tga 64
.Pp
Convert an NBFS+NBFP into a TGA and guess image dimensions:
.Pp
.Dl $ nbfs2tga a.nbfs a.nbfp a.tga
.Sh SEE ALSO
More information about the xoreos project can be found on
.Lk https://xoreos.org/ "its website"
.Ns .
.Sh AUTHORS
This program is part of the xoreos-tools package, which in turn is
part of the xoreos project, and was written by the xoreos team.
Please see the
.Pa AUTHORS
file for details.
