.de URL
\\$2 \(laURL: \\$1 \(ra\\$3
..
.if \n[.g] .mso www.tmac

.TH ncgr2tga 1 2015-07-23 "xoreos-tools"
.SH NAME
ncgr2tga - Nintendo NCGR image to TGA converter
.SH SYNOPSIS
ncgr2tga [<options>] <width> <height> <ncgr> [<ngr> [...]] <nclr> <tga>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B ncgr2tga
converts Nintendo's tile-based NCGR images into common TGA images.
.PP
2D graphics on the Nintendo DS is fundamentally tile-based.
Specifically, the graphics data in NCGR is ordered in tiles of 8x8
pixels. Moreover, an NCGR file can itself be a tile of a larger
image. This tool can automatically combine and unwrap these tiles,
and, together with an NCLR file for the palette, converts a grid
of NCGR into a plain old linear TGA image.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 4
.B -h
.PD 0
.TP 4
.B --help
.PD
Show a help text and exit.
.TP 4
.B --version
Show version information and exit.
.TP 4
<width>
The width of the NCGR grid, in NCGR files.
.TP 4
<height>
The height of the NCGR grid, in NCGR files.
.TP 4
<ncgr>
The name of an NCGR file to use. The NCGR contains the pixel
graphics part of the image.
.IP "" 4
width x height NCGR files have to be given; they are drawn into the
final TGA in row-major order. An empty filename, commonly specified
with "", means that this grid cell will be empty, filled with
palette entry 0.
.TP 4
<nclr>
The name of the NCLR file to use. The NCLR file contains the palette
part of the image.
.TP 4
<tga>
The resulting TGA file will be written there.
.SH LIMITATIONS
.PD 0
.IP - 2
Only NCGR files with version 1.1 are supported
.IP - 2
Only NCLR files with version 1.0 are supported
.IP - 2
Only palettes with bit-depths of 4 or 8 are supported
.IP - 2
Non-tiled or partitioned NCGR files are not supported
.IP - 2
Some NCGR files don't contain valid width/height values, and seem to
need an NCER file for this information. These files are currently
not supported
.PD
.SH EXAMPLES
.ad l
.B Convert a 2x3 grid of NCGR files:
.nf
.ad l
ncgr2tga 2 3 a0.ncgr a1.ncgr a2.ncgr a3.ncgr a4.ncgr a5.ncgr a.nclr a.tga
.PP
.fi
.ad l
.B Convert a 2x2 grid of NCGR files, leaving the lower left quadrant blank:
.nf
.ad l
ncgr2tga 2 2 b0.ncgr, b1.ncgr "" b2.ncgr b.nclr b.tga
.fi
.ad b
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cbgt2tga (1)
.PP
More information about the xoreos project can be found on
.URL "https://xoreos.org/" "its website" .
.SH AUTHORS
This program is part of the xoreos-tools package, which in turn is
part of the xoreos project, and was written by the xoreos team.
Please see the AUTHORS file for details.
