.Dd April 15, 2016
.Dt SSF2XML 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ssf2xml
.Nd BioWare SSF to XML converter
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm ssf2xml
.Op Ar options
.Ar input_file
.Op Ar output_file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
converts BioWare's SSF files into human-readable XML.
SSF are
.Dq sound sets ,
a list of voice lines uttered at certain situations, like
attacking, getting hurt or picking a lock.
Each line consists of an ID (denoting the position of the line
within the SSF file), an optional StrRef (refering a textual line
in a talk table) and an optional filename (which is the sound
file to play).
Additionally, each line may have a label attached which shows
what the purpose of this line is. This label is purely for the
benefit of the user reading the XML file and is not actually
stored within the SSF.
.Pp
SSF files are used in
.Em Neverwinter Nights ,
.Em Neverwinter Nights 2 ,
.Em Knights of the Old Republic
and
.Em Knights of the Old Republic II .
However, the version of the format used in the latter two do
not store any sound filenames, only StrRefs.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width xxxx -compact
.It Fl h
.It Fl Fl help
Show a help text and exit.
.It Fl Fl version
Show version information and exit.
.El
.Bl -tag -width xx -compact
.It Ar input_file
The SSF file to convert.
.It Ar output_file
The XML file will be written there.
If no output file is specified, the XML data is written to
.Dv stdout .
The encoding of the XML stream is always UTF-8.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Convert the SSF
.Pa file1.ssf
into an XML file:
.Pp
.Dl $ ssf2xml file1.ssf file2.xml
.Pp
Convert the SSF
.Pa file1.ssf
into an XML file on
.Dv stdout :
.Pp
.Dl $ ssf2xml file1.ssf
.Sh "SEE ALSO"
.Xr gff2xml 1 ,
.Xr tlk2xml 1 ,
.Xr xml2ssf 1
.Pp
More information about the xoreos project can be found on
.Lk https://xoreos.org/ "its website"
.Ns .
.Sh AUTHORS
This program is part of the xoreos-tools package, which in turn is
part of the xoreos project, and was written by the xoreos team.
Please see the
.Pa AUTHORS
file for details.
