.Dd July 24, 2018
.Dt UNHERF 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm unherf
.Nd BioWare HERF archive extractor
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm unherf
.Op Ar options
.Ar command
.Ar archive
.Op Ar
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
extract BioWare HERF archives, found in the Nintendo DS game
.Em Sonic Chronicles: The Dark Brotherhood .
.Pp
A HERF, Hashed ERF, is a very simple archive, similar to BioWare's
ERF and RIM files.
Unlike those, HERF usually only store djb2 hashes of the contained filenames.
This tool has a lookup table to convert
the hashes back into readable filenames.
Not all names are known yet.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width xxxx -compact
.It Fl h
.It Fl Fl help
Show a help text and exit.
.It Fl Fl version
Show version information and exit.
.El
.Bl -tag -width xx -compact
.It Ar command
.Bl -tag -width xx -compact
.It Cm l
List archive contents
.It Cm e
Extract files to current directory
.El
.It Ar archive
The HERF archive to read.
.It Ar file
One or more files to extract.
If none are given, the whole archive is extracted.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
List all files contained in the archive
.Pa archive.herf :
.Pp
.Dl $ unherf l archive.herf
.Pp
Extract all files from the archive
.Pa archive.herf :
.Pp
.Dl $ unherf e archive.herf
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr unerf 1 ,
.Xr unrim 1
.Pp
More information about the xoreos project can be found on
.Lk https://xoreos.org/ "its website"
.Ns .
.Sh AUTHORS
This program is part of the xoreos-tools package, which in turn is
part of the xoreos project, and was written by the xoreos team.
Please see the
.Pa AUTHORS
file for details.
