.Dd June 27, 2018
.Dt UNKEYBIF 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm unkeybif
.Nd BioWare KEY/BIF archive extractor
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm unkeybif
.Op Ar options
.Ar command
.Ar
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
extracts BioWare KEY/BIF archives, found in many BioWare games.
.Pp
KEY and BIF files are fundamentally linked: a KEY file contains file
names and types, while the BIF file contains the file data itself.
At the same time, a KEY file can control several BIF files.
.Pp
For example:
.Pp
.Pa foo.key
controls:
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
.Pa foo1.bif
.It
.Pa foo2.bif
.It
.Pa foo3.bif
.El
.Pp
.Pa foo.key
indexes:
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
.Pa bar.are
and
.Pa bar.git
from
.Pa foo1.bif
.It
.Pa qux.utc
from
.Pa foo2.bif
.It
.Pa baz.txt
from
.Pa foo3.bif
.El
.Pp
If you want to extract all files indexed by
.Pa foo.key ,
you need to also specify
.Pa foo1.bif , foo2.bif
and
.Pa foo3.bif
on the command.
If
.Pa foo3.bif
is missing,
.Pa baz.txt
will not be extracted.
However, listing file only requires the KEY.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width xxxx -compact
.It Fl h
.It Fl Fl help
Show a help text and exit.
.It Fl Fl version
Show version information and exit.
.It Fl Fl nwn2
Alias file types according to
.Em Neverwinter Nights 2
rules.
.Pp
.Em Neverwinter Nights 2
reuses a few file extension IDs differently than other BioWare games.
To correctly read Neverwinter Nights 2 KEY/BIF archives, use this flag.
.It Fl Fl jade
Alias file types according to
.Em Jade Empire
rules.
.Pp
.Em Jade Empire
reuses a few file extension IDs differently than other BioWare games.
To correctly read Jade Empire KEY/BIF archives, use this flag.
.El
.Bl -tag -width xx -compact
.It Ar command
.Bl -tag -width xx -compact
.It Cm l
List archive contents
.It Cm e
Extract files to current directory
.El
.It Ar file
A KEY or a BIF file to read.
Multiple KEY and BIF files can be specified; they'll be considered a unit.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
List all files indexed by the KEY file
.Pa chitin.key :
.Pp
.Dl $ unkeybif l chitin.key
.Pp
Extract all files contained in
.Pa data1.bif
and
.Pa data2.bif ,
that are indexed by
.Pa chitin.key :
.Pp
.Dl $ unkeybif e chitin.key data1.bif data2.bif
.Sh SEE ALSO
More information about the xoreos project can be found on
.Lk https://xoreos.org/ "its website"
.Ns .
.Sh AUTHORS
This program is part of the xoreos-tools package, which in turn is
part of the xoreos project, and was written by the xoreos team.
Please see the
.Pa AUTHORS
file for details.
