.Dd July 24, 2018
.Dt UNNSBTX 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm unnsbtx
.Nd Nintendo NSBTX texture extractor
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm unnsbtx
.Op Ar options
.Ar command
.Ar archive
.Op Ar
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
treats Nintendo NSBTX texture as archives and converts the multiple
images stored within into TGA files.
The image pixel data and the palettes are automatically combined,
provided they are named similarly.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width xxxx -compact
.It Fl h
.It Fl Fl help
Show a help text and exit.
.Fl Fl version
Show version information and exit.
.El
.Bl -tag -width xx -compact
.It Ar command
.Bl -tag -width xx -compact
.It Cm l
List images inside this NSBTX texture
.It Cm e
Extract images as TGA files
.El
.It Ar archive
The NSBTX texture to read.
.It Ar file
One or more files to extract.
If none are given, the whole texture is extracted.
.El
.Sh LIMITATIONS
The palette of an image has to be named similarly to the pixel data.
Specifically, the palette has to be either named the same, or
suffixed by
.Dq _pl ,
.Dq _p
or
.Dq _ .
If this not the case, and a palette for an image can't be found,
.Nm
throws an error.
.Sh EXAMPLES
List all images contained in the texture
.Pa texture.nsbtx :
.Pp
.Dl $ unnsbtx l texture.nsbtx
.Pp
Extract all images contained in the texture
.Pa texture.nsbtx :
.Pp
.Dl $ unnsbtx e texture.nsbtx
.Sh SEE ALSO
More information about the xoreos project can be found on
.Lk https://xoreos.org/ "its website"
.Ns .
.Sh AUTHORS
This program is part of the xoreos-tools package, which in turn is
part of the xoreos project, and was written by the xoreos team.
Please see the
.Pa AUTHORS
file for details.
