.Dd August 5, 2018
.Dt UNOBB 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm unobb
.Nd Aspyr OBB virtual filesystem / archive extractor
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm unobb
.Op Ar options
.Ar command
.Ar archive
.Op Ar
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
extracts Aspyr's OBB filesystem files, found in their Android
.Em Jade Empire
port, and OBB ZIP archives, found in Aspyr's Android
.Em Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic
port.
.Pp
OBB files contain either a
.Dq virtual filesystem ,
with files split into chunks and compressed via zlib, or plain
ZIP archives.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width xxxx -compact
.It Fl h
.It Fl Fl help
Show a help text and exit.
.It Fl Fl version
Show version information and exit.
.El
.Bl -tag -width xx -compact
.It Ar command
.Bl -tag -width xx -compact
.It Cm l
List filesystem contents (without directories)
.It Cm v
List filesystem contents with full paths
.It Cm e
Extract files to current directory, stripping directories
.It Cm x
Extract files to current directory with full path, including directories.
.El
.It Ar archive
The OBB file to read.
.It Ar file
One or more files to extract.
If none are given, the whole archive is extracted.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
List all files contained in the filesystem
.Pa main.obb :
.Pp
.Dl $ unobb l main.obb
.Pp
Extract all files from the archive
.Pa main.obb :
.Pp
.Dl $ unobb e main.obb
.Pp
Extract a certain file from the archive
.Pa main.obb
with full path:
.Pp
.Dl $ unobb x main.obb a/certain/file.txt
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr unrim 1
.Pp
More information about the xoreos project can be found on
.Lk https://xoreos.org/ "its website"
.Ns .
.Sh AUTHORS
This program is part of the xoreos-tools package, which in turn is
part of the xoreos project, and was written by the xoreos team.
Please see the
.Pa AUTHORS
file for details.
