.Dd July 24, 2018
.Dt UNRIM 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm unrim
.Nd BioWare RIM archive extractor
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm unrim
.Op Ar options
.Ar command
.Ar archive
.Op Ar
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
extracts BioWare RIM archives, found in many BioWare games.
.Pp
RIM archives are simplified ERF archives, stripped of everything
not related to holding files (like the description string).
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width xxxx -compact
.It Fl h
.It Fl Fl help
Show a help text and exit.
.It Fl Fl version
Show version information and exit.
.It Fl Fl nwn2
Alias file types according to
.Em Neverwinter Nights 2
rules.
.Pp
.Em Neverwinter Nights 2
reuses a few file extension IDs differently than other BioWare games.
To correctly read Neverwinter Nights 2 RIM archives, use this flag.
.It Fl Fl jade
Alias file types according to
.Em Jade Empire
rules.
.Pp
.Em Jade Empire
reuses a few file extension IDs differently than other BioWare games.
To correctly read Jade Empire RIM archives, use this flag.
.El
.Bl -tag -width xx -compact
.It Ar command
.Bl -tag -width xx -compact
.It Cm l
List archive contents
.It Cm e
Extract files to current directory
.El
.It Ar archive
The RIM archive to read.
.It Ar file
One or more files to extract.
If none are given, the whole archive is extracted.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
List all files contained in the archive
.Pa archive.rim :
.Pp
.Dl $ unrim l archive.rim
.Pp
Extract all files from the archive
.Pa archive.rim :
.Pp
.Dl $ unrim e archive.rim
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr unerf 1
.Pp
More information about the xoreos project can be found on
.Lk https://xoreos.org/ "its website"
.Ns .
.Sh AUTHORS
This program is part of the xoreos-tools package, which in turn is
part of the xoreos project, and was written by the xoreos team.
Please see the
.Pa AUTHORS
file for details.
