.Dd May 30, 2020
.Dt XML2GFF 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm xml2gff
.Nd XML to BioWare GFF converter
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm xml2gff
.Ar input_file
.Ar output_file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
converts XML files created by the
.Xr gff2xml 1
tool back into the BioWare GFF3 format.
.Pp
Unsupported Features:
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
GFF4 (V4.0/V4.1)
.It
Color codes in strings
.El
.Pp
The format of the input XML is rather simple, but there are many different elements.
.Bd -literal
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="yes"?>
<gff3 type="ID">
  <struct id="4294967295">
    <list label="test_list">
      <struct label="list_struct" id="0">
        ...
      </struct>
    </list>
    <struct label="nonlist_struct" id="0">
      ...
    </struct>
    <byte label="value1">1</byte>
    <char label="value2">A</char>
    <sint16 label="value3">-1</sint16>
    <sint32 label="value4">-1</sint32>
    <sint64 label="value5">-1</sint64>
    <uint16 label="value6">1</uint16>
    <uint32 label="value7">1</uint32>
    <uint64 label="value8">1</uint64>
    <float label="value10">1.0</float>
    <double label="value11">1.0</double>
    <exostring label="value12">Test String</exostring>
    <resref label="value13">test_resource</resref>
    <locstring label="value14" strref="46">
      <string language="0">Localized String</string>
      ...
    </locstring>
    <void label="value15">...</void>
    <orientation label="value16">
      <double>1.0<double>
      <double>1.0<double>
      <double>1.0<double>
      <double>1.0<double>
    </orientation>
    <vector label="value17">
      <double>1.0<double>
      <double>1.0<double>
      <double>1.0<double>
    </vector>
    <strref label="value13" strref="12">
  </struct>
</gff3>
.Ed
.Pp
The root element is either
.Dq gff3
or
.Dq gff4
which determines the GFF format to write (GFF4 is currently unsupported)
and it must have a type property with a maximum of 4 characters. If there
are more than 4, only the first 4 will be used.
.Pp
The element under the gff tag always needs to be a
.Dq struct
tag with the id
.Dq 4294967295
after that all other tags which are childs of the root struct in the sample above are possible
to use.
.Pp
The tags
.Dq vector
and
.Dq orientation
need to have 3 and 4 child
.Dq double
tags.
.Dq locstring
tags can have multiple
.Dq string
tags with a language property which combines language and gender.
struct tags including the root one can only have
.Dq byte ,
.Dq char ,
.Dq sint16 ,
.Dq sint32 ,
.Dq sint64 ,
.Dq uint16 ,
.Dq uint32 ,
.Dq uint64 ,
.Dq float ,
.Dq double ,
.Dq exostring ,
.Dq resref ,
.Dq locstring ,
.Dq data ,
.Dq orientation ,
.Dq vector ,
.Dq strref ,
.Dq list
and
.Dq struct
tags.
The
.Dq list
accepts only struct child tags.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width xxxx -compact
.It Fl h
.It Fl Fl help
Show a help text and exit.
.El
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width xxxx -compact
.It Fl Fl nwn
Write LocStrings in an encoding appropriate for
.Em Neverwinter Nights .
.It Fl Fl nwn2
Write LocStrings in an encoding appropriate for
.Em Neverwinter Nights 2 .
.It Fl Fl kotor
Write LocStrings in an encoding appropriate for
.Em Knights of the Old Republic .
.It Fl Fl kotor2
Write LocStrings in an encoding appropriate for
.Em Knights of the Old Republic II .
.It Fl Fl jade
Write LocStrings in an encoding appropriate for
.Em Jade Empire .
.It Fl Fl witcher
Write LocStrings in an encoding appropriate for
.Em The Witcher .
.It Fl Fl dragonage
Write LocStrings in an encoding appropriate for
.Em Dragon Age: Origins .
.It Fl Fl dragonage2
Write LocStrings in an encoding appropriate for
.Em Dragon Age II .
.It Fl Fl encoding Ar str
Override an encoding.
The string has to be of the form n=encoding, for example 0=cp-1252
to override the encoding of the (ungendered) language ID 0 to be
Windows codepage 1252.
To override several encodings, specify the --encoding parameter
multiple times.
.El
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width xxxx -compact
.It Fl Fl v32
Create a GFF3 V3.2. This is the default for all games except
.Em The Witcher .
.It Fl Fl v33
Create a GFF3 V3.3. This is the default for
.Em The Witcher .
.El
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width xxxx -compact
.It Ar input_file
The XML file to convert.
If the input is -, the XML data is read from
.Dv stdin .
.It Ar output_file
The GFF file will be written there.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Convert
.Pa file1.xml
into a V3.2 GFF file:
.Pp
.Dl $ xml2gff file1.xml file2.gff
.Pp
Convert stdin
into a V3.2 GFF file:
.Pp
.Dl $ xml2gff - file1.gff
.Pp
Convert
.Pa file1.xml
into a V3.2 GFF file, using
.Em Neverwinter Nights
encoding tables:
.Pp
.Dl $ xml2gff file1.xml file2.gff
.Pp
Convert
.Pa file1.xml
into a V3.2 GFF file, and encode language ID 0 in LocStrings
as Windows CP-1250:
.Dl $ gff2xml --encoding 0=cp1250 file1.xml file2.gff
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr gff2xml 1
.Pp
More information about the xoreos project can be found on
.Lk https://xoreos.org/ "its website"
.Ns .
.Sh AUTHORS
This program is part of the xoreos-tools package, which in turn is
part of the xoreos project, and was written by the xoreos team.
Please see the
.Pa AUTHORS
file for details.
