.Dd July 29, 2018
.Dt XOREOSTEX2TGA 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm xoreostex2tga
.Nd BioWare textures to TGA converter
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm xoreostex2tga
.Op Ar options
.Ar input_file output_file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
converts textures of various formats found in BioWare games into
plain TGA images.
.Pp
Supported formats:
.Bl -tag -compact -width Ds
.It DDS
Both the common DirectDraw Surface format and BioWare's own,
completely different DDS format are supported, each with a variety
of pixel formats
.It SBM
Found in
.Em Jade Empire ,
holding font glyphs
.It TXB
Textures in
.Em Jade Empire
and the Xbox version of
.Em Knights of the Old Republic
.It TPC
Textures in other versions of
.Em Knights of the Old Republic .
.It TGA
Textures in various games, in many different pixels formats
.El
.Pp
The output format is always either 24-bit or 32-bit BGR(A) TGA,
depending on whether the input file has an alpha channel or not.
Only the highest resolution mip map will be used.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width xxxx -compact
.It Fl h
.It Fl Fl help
Show a help text and exit.
.It Fl Fl version
Show version information and exit.
.It Fl f
.It Fl Fl flip
Flip the image vertically while converting.
.It Fl d
.It Fl Fl deswizzle
The input file is an SBM image from an Xbox version.
These need to be deswizzled when converting.
.It Fl Fl auto
Try to autodetect the format of the input file.
This is the default mode of operation.
.It Fl Fl dds
Explicitly mark the input file as DDS.
.It Fl Fl sbm
Explicitly mark the input file as SBM.
.It Fl Fl tpc
Explicitly mark the input file as TPC.
.It Fl Fl txb
Explicitly mark the input file as TXB.
.It Fl Fl tga
Explicitly mark the input file as TGA.
.El
.Bl -tag -width xxxx -compact
.It Ar input_file
The name of the texture file to read.
.It Ar output_file
The resulting TGA file will be written there.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Convert
.Pa texture.dds
into
.Pa image.tga :
.Pp
.Dl $ xoreostex2tga texture.dds image.tga
.Pp
Convert
.Pa texture.dds
into
.Pa image.tga
and flip the image:
.Pp
.Dl $ xoreostex2tga --flip texture.dds image.tga
.Pp
Convert the TPC
.Pa texture.txb
into
.Pa image.tga
and flip the image:
.Pp
.Dl $ xoreostex2tga --flip --tpc texture.txb image.tga
.Sh SEE ALSO
More information about the xoreos project can be found on
.Lk https://xoreos.org/ "its website"
.Ns .
.Sh AUTHORS
This program is part of the xoreos-tools package, which in turn is
part of the xoreos project, and was written by the xoreos team.
Please see the
.Pa AUTHORS
file for details.
